[AUDIO LOGO]
[THEME MUSIC]
>>GEORGE NOORY: Welcome
to "Beyond Belief."
Bill McKenna with us, the
founder of the Cognomovement
and the author of
"The Only Lesson."
And he's going to
teach a simple method
for reaching higher dimensions.
Bill, welcome to the program.
>>BILL MCKENNA:
Oh, thanks, George.
You know, I am so excited.
Been on your show a few times.
But this is by far
the most excited
I've ever been
because we are going
to share with everybody
something that
is going to change their reality
that is going to allow them
to access a higher dimension
and change their life easily
and quickly.
>>NOORY: You've got some
earth-shaking things to tell us.
That's for sure.
Now, tell me about
Cognomovement.
What does that mean?
>>MCKENNA: Cognomovement is a
simple exercise that utilizes
the nervous system and the
brain to reprogram our automatic
responses, all those things
that don't feel good--
shame, guilt, grief,
humiliation, anger.
All those things that don't feel
good, we can make them go away,
and we can also elevate a
person's performance as well.
>>NOORY: How did you
get involved in this?
>>MCKENNA: A series of what I
would call unfortunate events
at the time.
I wrecked my boat in Mexico,
and that led inadvertently
to a spiritual awakening.
And with that, I went from
what I would call service
to self to service to others.
>>NOORY: How do you
wreck a boat in Mexico?
[LAUGHS]
>>MCKENNA: I think it
was all predestined.
It was a year prior I
had actually dreamed it,
every single detail.
>>NOORY: Did you crash?
>>MCKENNA: Yes, like a Titanic.
I ran into an uncharted
rock down in Mexico,
and it split the side
of the boat open--
>>NOORY: Down it went.
>>MCKENNA: --in the
middle of the night.
>>NOORY: Who saved you?
>>MCKENNA: Well, we
actually ended up
making it into the port.
We did all the
emergency procedures
and ended up making it
into the closest port.
>>NOORY: You would think the
boat would leak like a sieve?
>>MCKENNA: Oh, it was, yes.
>>NOORY: Good thing
you're still with us.
>>MCKENNA: Here I am.
>>NOORY: My god.
What is physiological certainty?
>>MCKENNA:
Physiological certainty
is something very interesting.
It is when we have a certain
sensation in our body.
We have certain emotions.
And it's a combination
of those two things,
plus the understanding
that we come
to so far in our lives
that creates our thoughts.
And with this, when we are
completely certain of something,
meaning it's a bad thing
that's going to happen
or something good, that
thing, when we're very, very
certain about it and everything
is aligned, it tends to happen.
>>NOORY: How does that tie
into consciousness, Bill?
>>MCKENNA: So our
consciousness is
relative to all of our
reactions in our body.
When we are in a state
where we're reactive,
we have fear, guilt,
grief, anger, resentment,
that is a certain
level of consciousness,
a low level of awareness.
And as we move through the
different levels of awareness
to forgiveness and love and
bliss and joy and oneness,
these are other levels
of consciousness.
And all they really are is
simply just the understanding
that we've come to as the
truth of our life so far.
>>NOORY: It works, doesn't it?
>>MCKENNA: It does.
It's working all the time.
>>NOORY: Are different emotions
different ways of treating this?
>>MCKENNA: Our
emotions will drive
all of our life experiences,
and it will drive our thoughts.
These come through
our nervous system.
They are simply automatic.
And with those
emotions, we will end up
creating an actual reality.
We become very certain,
for example, that we're
going to have a bad day.
And of course, we go
to the grocery store,
and the people are mean to us.
We get a flat tire, so on and
so forth, just the same as--
>>NOORY: Road rage.
>>MCKENNA: There
we go, perfect one.
>>NOORY: Perfect
example, isn't it?
>>MCKENNA: Yeah,
perfect example.
>>NOORY: Bill, how does
one use their senses
to shift their dimensions?
>>MCKENNA: There is
an amazing discovery
we made related to changing
your consciousness.
And it turns out that with
different eye positions,
you can get a different feeling.
>>NOORY: Eye positions?
>>MCKENNA: Eye positions.
So for example, there
is a position for me.
Mine's right up over here.
When my eyes are there, I feel a
sense of universal love, bliss,
forgiveness.
All of those things are present.
>>NOORY: Give me that look.
>>MCKENNA: Right
over there for me.
>>NOORY: How long do
you have to do that?
>>MCKENNA: You hold it only
for a couple of minutes
or even less, and you will
start to enter into that state.
The beauty of it is that
you don't have to really try
to change your mind.
You may have difficult things
in your life that are happening.
But once you know the
position that is for you,
and is different for
everybody, what happens
is that reality shifts.
Maybe I have the hugest
problem in my life.
But as I'm over here, I
see other opportunities,
or I see that it is
not such a big deal.
>>NOORY: Interesting.
Now, how does knowing how
to change your reality
useful in your life?
>>MCKENNA: Most of us are
just going from one reaction
to the next.
>>NOORY: Bang, bang, bang, bang.
>>MCKENNA: One after
the next, we wake up.
We want something.
We don't get it.
A series of unfortunate
events happens.
All those things
actually end up just
for most people
creating their reality.
They don't feel they
have any control over it,
because they don't.
I know that sounds strange, but
it's their automatic reactions
that are driving their life.
>>NOORY: Now, we've got
a clip of Liz Larson,
the cocreator of
Cognomovement, talking
about the physiological
certainty,
much like what you've explained.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
- Have you ever had that
feeling that everything is going
to work out perfectly
for you in a situation,
somehow you just know?
It turns out that that's a very
particular physiological state.
We call it a
physiological certainty.
It's a combination of feelings
in your body sensations
that all add up to you creating
a very specific timeline.
It has to do with the
tension or pain in your body
and the emotion that's
stacked on top of that.
Those together
equal your thoughts.
All three of those add
up to a consciousness,
your awareness in the moment.
It shifts your
entire perspective.
It allows you to
be in a state where
you can see opportunities,
where you're in the flow
or in the zone.
All of us have also had the
converse of that, where we just
have a dread or doom.
We know it's not going to
work out, and it doesn't.
It's actually the same system.
It's a physiological certainty
that things won't work out.
It's something that your
body is actually creating.
So to be in a state or the
flow where it works out great,
you just have to know
your body's very specific
physiological certainty.
You can get in that state and
change reality again and again
just by knowing your
body's very specific setup.
[END PLAYBACK]
>>NOORY: How does she
know these things?
>>MCKENNA: A lot of studying
of different modalities.
>>NOORY: Trial and error.
>>MCKENNA: Trial and error.
Yeah, working with
a lot of people.
>>NOORY: How does
the average person
tap into things like
what she just said
and make it work for themselves?
>>MCKENNA: It's really simple.
What we're going to
share today makes
this fully accessible for
anybody to shift their reality.
It is as simple as a
position, whereas before, you
would struggle.
I shouldn't feel like this.
I should change my attitude.
I should treat people
a different way,
but it's hard for me to.
>>NOORY: How do you know if
the reality is working for you
or not?
How do you know?
>>MCKENNA: The easy way
to tell if the reality
is working for you or
not is, what's going on?
What is going on in your life?
I think it was
Einstein who said,
you can look at the
world in two ways.
Either that nothing
is a miracle,
or everything is a miracle.
And the truth is it's
always working for us,
but we don't have to
go down the hard road.
You can learn.
You can grow through
either chaos or harmony.
They're both available to us.
>>NOORY: What did the late prime
minister of Britain Winston
Churchill have to
say about this?
He was spot on.
>>MCKENNA: He sure was.
I believe he said that men will
often stumble across the truth
but will promptly
ignore it and walk away.
>>NOORY: It's like
asking for directions.
>>MCKENNA: Yes.
>>NOORY: Same kind of thing.
Give us some examples of
how you would apply this
to your day-to-day life?
>>MCKENNA: So the easy way to
utilize this in your daily life,
what we're going to teach,
is when things are not
going your way, you're going to
notice a physiological certainty
of, I'm having a bad day.
I'm having difficulties.
>>NOORY: Things happen.
>>MCKENNA: Things
happen, flat tires.
People are mean to me here.
My coworker talked behind my
back, whatever be the case.
>>NOORY: You lose a sale in
your business, something.
>>MCKENNA: Something happened.
And the easy way to
do this is to simply--
as you know your position,
and this position
will be particular to you--
is to simply put
your eyes over there.
You will see new perceptions.
You will be able to not
take things as seriously,
because they aren't.
You'll see new opportunities
where you couldn't
see the opportunities before.
You'll be able to love and
forgive and be grateful.
>>NOORY: Tell us about
fear and how that's
created in this environment.
>>MCKENNA: Fear is something
that really no one chooses.
No one ever gets up
and is like, you know.
>>NOORY: I want to be scared.
>>MCKENNA: I want to be
afraid, or I want to be mad.
Nobody ever chooses that.
But the fear is actually
an automatic response.
Somewhere along the line,
in our nervous systems,
we have a reaction.
If you pay attention, it's
somewhere in your physical body.
And when we get the sensation,
what happens is very,
very quickly, we'll send
the signal to the brain,
and you'll get an
equal thought to that.
So I'll find something
to be afraid of.
Many people even
experience anxiety
where they have nothing
to attach it to.
They realize they have
nothing to attach it to.
But they just get this
overwhelming, fearful feeling.
It's your body's nervous
system on overdrive.
>>NOORY: Bill, you've got an
interesting story about a gas
station in an episode of fear.
What happened?
>>MCKENNA: You know,
George, I live in San Diego.
I have some VIP
Hollywood type customers.
So I got a, now and again,
drive from San Diego to LA,
and I have to get up very
early in the morning.
>>NOORY: That's a poke.
>>MCKENNA: Yes.
And usually, I fill
up my tank beforehand.
And this particular
night, I didn't.
But I forced me to get up
at 5:00 in the morning,
and it's winter.
It's dark.
There's nobody on the roads.
I'm there.
I'm alone.
I pull into the station.
And as I'm pulling in, I
can see across the station.
The station is unmanned.
It's dark, but the pumps work.
And I can see there's a
guy over in the corner--
>>NOORY: Standing there?
>>MCKENNA: Yeah, kind
of milling about--
has that kind of methamphetamine
type of look, feel to it.
And so I had a bunch
of cash in my wallet
and my credit
cards in my wallet.
I pull out my wallet,
and I was like, oh, no.
I'm thinking, oh, no, but
I take my credit card out.
>>NOORY: He's going to see this.
>>MCKENNA: Yeah, I
swipe the credit card,
and I start filling.
And as I put the nozzle in, it
was like [IMITATING GAS PUMP
SOUNDS].
And I'm like I'm getting
a spit out of it.
And I go back in, up, down.
[IMITATING GAS PUMP SOUNDS]
And I keep doing this.
And I'm like, man, you're
drawing attention to yourself.
Not good, Bill.
>>NOORY: Now, where's this
guy, still hanging around?
>>MCKENNA: He's
still lurking about.
And he's over here
near the trash cans
and on the other pumps.
>>NOORY: Is he
getting closer to you?
>>MCKENNA: No, well,
he's not that close.
He's over on the next one over.
And I'm noticing this fear.
I said to myself,
are you doing this?
Are you causing this
pump to act this way?
And just as I did that, I
looked over, and there he is.
He's in the trash can,
and he's got a bag out.
He's pulled a burger, half-eaten
burger out of the bag.
>>NOORY: That somebody
dumped in there?
>>MCKENNA: Somebody dumped in
there, and he starts eating it.
>>NOORY: Oh my god.
>>MCKENNA: And he
had some other food,
and he was just
eating this food.
And I looked over, and
it went, all of a sudden,
from this overwhelming
fierce situation--
>>NOORY: Concern.
>>MCKENNA: Concern.
To a compassion and a feeling
of, oh, it's not that.
And I reached in my pocket.
I got the biggest bills out of
my pocket, and I walked over.
And as I'm walking over, it's
like I can hear his prayers.
And I gave him the money.
And I said, I heard it.
I heard it.
And I went back to the pump.
>>NOORY: And he
took it, of course.
>>MCKENNA: He took it
graciously, humbly, graciously.
I walked back to the pump, and
[IMITATING GAS PUMP SOUNDS]..
So this thing is
filled up like that.
And anyway, the
realization there
is that I literally jumped
from third dimension
to fourth to fifth dimension.
I went from being in fear,
which is third dimension,
to releasing all of my
judgments and my assumptions
and feeling compassion, which
is the fourth dimension.
And I could see myself in him.
I literally was like--
the Irish have a saying.
"All but for the grace of God."
>>NOORY: Go I.
>>MCKENNA: There go I. This is
a return to sender universe.
And this happens
faster and faster
as you elevate your level of
consciousness or understanding.
So whatever I am outputting,
if I am judging somebody,
I'm going to
experience that back.
In the lower density,
everything slows down.
When you're in anger,
fear, resentment
and you're firmly seated
in that third dimension,
things happen slowly.
It may not return to you
for months, for years,
for decades from someone
else at some other place
in some other time.
As you elevate yourself and
begin to have compassion
and forgive and see
yourself in another,
it will automatically happen.
It will automatically
be returned
to you, whatever that
is, faster and faster.
>>NOORY: If you show compassion.
>>MCKENNA: Yes, if
you show compassion,
compassion is shown to you.
And it shows up in
the weirdest way,
that it seems
completely unrelated.
But the universe, because, in
fact, we are all one, it must.
>>NOORY: What is
the third dimension?
>>MCKENNA: So the
third dimension
is simply a dimension that is
governed by conditional love.
>>NOORY: Explain that.
>>MCKENNA: So there's everything
that would be conditional here,
even romantic relationships.
Typically, those are "I
trade you very much,"
not really "I love
you very much."
They have a want to it.
The other person wants as
well, but it's conditional.
There are things that may be off
limits within the relationship.
That's a condition,
and that's OK.
There's nothing wrong
with the third dimension,
fourth, or fifth.
They're just
different dimensions.
With this conditional love, we
have laws, rules, regulations,
yours and mine.
Everything is separate.
We have property lines.
>>NOORY: That's the
third dimension.
>>MCKENNA: Yeah.
>>NOORY: What about the fourth?
>>MCKENNA: In the
fourth dimension,
this is where we begin to
release all those judgments
and assumptions of the third.
And it is the home of
unconditional love.
This is where we transcend
from the conditional
to the unconditional.
And during this process,
we have to release
our judgments and
assumptions, which take time.
Kind of like I did--
>>NOORY: And I think most people
would prefer unconditional love,
wouldn't they?
>>MCKENNA: Yes, we
would all prefer that.
It's kind of hard to get until
we can begin to get there
for ourselves,
until we can start
to accept ourselves and love
ourselves the way we are right,
now faults and all.
>>NOORY: What about
the fifth dimension?
>>MCKENNA: In the
fifth dimension,
we end up seeing
ourselves in the other.
We end up recognizing
that that's me.
And in this state, in this
fifth dimensional state,
not only do you
recognize it, but you're
filled with bliss and
love and understanding.
In this dimension,
when you think it,
then very, very quickly, if
not instantly, things happen.
That karma is returned
back to you at that point
almost instantly.
>>NOORY: Do you do a lot of
prayer in the fifth dimension?
>>MCKENNA: So in your life
in the fifth dimension
is your prayer.
Your love, your
feeling of oneness,
your bliss that is
your prayer, and that
will produce the reality
that's appropriate for that.
>>NOORY: Is there a dimension
you would prefer to stay in?
>>MCKENNA: The preparation
for the fifth dimension
is in the fourth dimension.
In the fourth dimension, it's
like the training wheels.
And in that dimension,
you're slowly
letting go of all those
automatic reactions.
>>NOORY: They all kind of gel
into each other, don't they?
>>MCKENNA: They do, and
they're like a rainbow,
a little bit at a time.
>>NOORY: Do you know Howard
Martin from HeartMath?
>>MCKENNA: Oh, yeah.
>>NOORY: He's a genius.
Well, you've got some video
of the HeartMath Bio-Well,
they call it.
It's a device.
And how it could be used
to push us into 5D reality,
it's amazing.
Watch this.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
- It's a little known fact that
you can change your physiology,
change how you feel,
change what you're
thinking by a simple shift
in your eye movement.
You see, your eye movement
accesses place cells
in your brain that hold your
memory not just for thoughts
but for feelings, for
whole physiological states.
One of our Cognomovement
practitioners in the next clip
is hooked up to a HeartMath
Institute EM Pro Plus.
It measures heart
coherence and how quickly
you can enter that state.
The particular eye position
that she's going to use
is called the love position
or the love direction.
And it's actually a place
where you can put your eyes
and access a state
of universal love.
It floods the body with
the endorphins of love.
Your thoughts go to love,
and what this clip will show
is how quickly it happens.
- OK, now we're going to
use this Cognomovement
technique to get the
heart and brain coherence.
And I know where my
love position is,
so I'm going to
get right into it.
- Here, we see Kristen connected
to the heart coherence monitor.
Increased coherence enables
better internal balance,
greater health, and new levels
of creativity, resilience,
and productivity.
A score of 3, according to
the HeartMath Institute,
is excellent.
And we see here that Kristen
zooms right past it up
into the 6s.
Before Kristen moved her
eyes into the love position,
we took a Bio-Well reading.
We can see that she's a
little out of balance,
and that her alignment
is only about 70%.
The brightly colored balls
represent her energy centers.
Here's Kristen's reading
after the love direction.
You can see that her alignment
has jumped up to 86%,
and that her energy centers
are much larger and much more
in alignment as they
relate to her body.
In this next Bio-Well reading,
you see her before image
as it relates to the
energy in her body.
You see the jagged spikes,
and you see that imbalance
once again.
We see here that
Kristen has 51 joules
of energy for her body to use.
Here's the reading of Kristen's
energy after the love direction.
We see that she jumped
up to 65 joules.
That's a 14-point jump.
- How amazing was that?
In less than two
minutes, she was
able to put herself in a
state of universal love.
- In this state, a person can
manifest very, very rapidly.
In this state, a person
could attract more love
in their lives, maybe even
another person into their life.
In this particular state,
everything is in the now,
in the present and expanding.
[END PLAYBACK]
>>NOORY: It is truly remarkable
how that works, Bill.
>>MCKENNA: It is
remarkable that it's all
done through knowing the actual
direction, your Cognomovement
love direction.
And once you
understand where that
is, that you can put
yourself in that state,
the most important
thing here is,
you know-- that video
ended obviously.
But what happened to her after?
She had a dream that night.
When she went into
coherence and she
kept that and kept
that position,
she dreamed about
creating a farm.
And on this farm,
she would have vets
and help them to know
how to farm and become
self-sustainable.
And with that,
they would also get
help to learn about
how to overcome
their PTSD and
that sort of thing.
Within 30 days, not only
had she bought the land.
She had created all the things
for this not-for profit.
And at the end, she needed
another million dollars
to fit out the
land with buildings
and that sort of thing.
She had a guy who was 81
years old come to her and say,
you know, I can't build
the buildings anymore.
But what I can do is cut
that million-dollar check,
and that was just.
>>NOORY: He just wrote it out.
>>MCKENNA: Amazing,
amazing story
because when she kept in
coherence all of life,
all the people around her
go into synchronicity.
The HeartMath Institute has
done a bunch of studies on this.
When you're in coherence, the
people around you can't help it,
but they go into
coherence as well.
>>NOORY: That's amazing work.
I can tell from you alone, Bill,
that you give off an energy
vibe, which you can feel.
I mean, you're radiating.
Have you always done that?
You know what I'm talking about.
[LAUGHTER]
>>MCKENNA: Well, actually,
probably after 2007 or so,
that's about when that started.
>>NOORY: Did you train
yourself to do that?
>>MCKENNA: I got
a lot of training.
I had amazing masters that
ended up showing up in my life,
and they helped me so much.
>>NOORY: How did you
discover the link
between our physiological
thought and shifting dimensions?
>>MCKENNA: So that,
again, was standing
on the shoulders of giants, the
work of so many of the greats.
Dr. David Hawkins, who
developed the scale of levels
of consciousness,
he was able to help
to define that all of
these different emotions
and the amount of energy
that they will generate.
So not only the understanding
of that but then
the personal
experience of my life
and being able to discover
this cognitive movement
love position, that really
solidified it for me
when I understood, and I could
actually feel it intensely.
>>NOORY: Interesting.
Now, how do you measure a
change in the reality shift?
How do you do that?
>>MCKENNA: So the way that
you measure it is very simple,
is, what is going on in my life?
When you go into the
fourth dimension,
you're going to notice--
kind of like Kristen, that we
saw that was in heart coherence,
utilizing the position, the
person offering her $1 million,
the land showing up,
the dream taking place.
Everything seems to just start
to happen naturally and easily.
You go from event to event
without stress, without worry,
without fear.
And the next person shows up,
helping with the next thing.
>>NOORY: We've got
a video testimonial
of a person who was able
to shift their reality,
truly remarkable.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
- We always think
about shifting reality
around major things in
our life or around goals
or big manifestations.
But what about shifting reality
around seemingly small things,
around everyday business?
- A lot of us know what working
in customer service is like.
And when you're
having a bad day,
it seems to be reflected
back to you in the way
that customers treat you.
So I was having
one of those days,
and I was already kind
of not having a great day
in the first place.
And then I get an email
with an unhappy customer.
It seemed to feel irrational to
me, but they were complaining.
They didn't want what they
got, something like that.
And so I was starting to feel
even more irritated, even more
flustered.
So I stopped what I was doing.
I grabbed my Cognomovement
ball, and I did my session.
And I was able to really feel
how I felt about that person,
about the day.
And by the end of the session,
I felt really neutral.
The tension in my body
just completely relaxed.
And I was able to come into
it knowing that however I
could make this
customer happy, even
if that meant a refund,
that's how I would do it.
We only want happy money
anyway, and we'll replace
that no problem, no big deal.
So I went to my computer.
And before I could
send a response,
this lady sent me an
email back and said,
hey, you know, I'm
really sorry I actually
misunderstood what I got.
And there's actually so much
more to it than I realized.
And I would like to buy
this other course as well.
So I ended up turning a refund
into an upgrade with just
a 10-minute session.
>>NOORY: Do we do this, Bill?
Or does the universe
do this for us?
>>MCKENNA: We're doing it,
and we are coordinating.
It's a cocreation.
>>NOORY: So she was
doing her thing?
>>MCKENNA: Yeah, but it was
not only was it the resistance,
but it was also the release.
All of it was
within her control.
She created the problem, and
she created the solution.
>>NOORY: Why is negativity
or positivity so important?
Because it affects it.
>>MCKENNA: Absolutely.
>>NOORY: There's no doubt.
>>MCKENNA: Yeah,
it is so important
because we are creative beings.
With negativity, we'll
create that resistance.
We'll create that physiological
certainty of an outcome.
People who say, it can't
be done, I don't think so,
and that's how their life goes.
But they don't have
any way out, because--
>>NOORY: They pull that black
cloud over their head, right?
>>MCKENNA: And
that's how they feel.
It's true to them.
They are certain of it.
But for somebody like you,
George, things go different.
>>NOORY: It's attitude.
>>MCKENNA: Yes.
>>NOORY: That's the
important thing.
>>MCKENNA: When we
have this feeling
in our body, this
negative feeling,
it broadcasts an electromagnetic
signal out into our field.
HeartMath actually
has measured this.
And so whatever that is,
that will be attracted to us.
Whether it's
positive or negative,
either way, we will
get to experience it.
And if we're continually
throwing it out there over and,
over whatever that might
be, in our field, then
that's what's going to happen.
In this particular case,
it was pretty great
that he was able to do that.
>>NOORY: What creates
that negativity?
>>MCKENNA: What creates it?
>>NOORY: Yeah, I've always
been a positive person.
I don't get how so many
people can be negative.
>>MCKENNA: They're
being programmed.
Their parents, between
the ages of 0 and 7,
they're in what they
call a hypnotic state.
And any negativity can be taken
on by the child and program
their nervous system,
which is the subconscious.
So they have this automatic
response through their body.
They feel it, and then they'll
just think it and say it.
>>NOORY: What is the
love position, Bill?
And by the way, folks, don't
take this the wrong way.
>>MCKENNA: You know what?
We changed the name to the
love direction because--
>>NOORY: That might be a
little more appropriate.
>>MCKENNA: I think that's
a better way of saying it
because it is a direction.
So this technique that I'm
going to teach you right now
is very, very simple.
You think of somebody that you
love non-romantically, a pet,
somebody that doesn't send you--
>>NOORY: A friend.
>>MCKENNA: A friend.
Something that doesn't
send you into grief.
For some other
people, maybe they
don't have something
that's easily accessible.
They can think of the
most beautiful place
that they ever were or
a painting that they
felt was absolutely beautiful.
Or maybe it was a
spiritual experience
that sent them into bliss.
You recall that.
And then what you do is
you move your eyes up,
and you're going to move
them around in a big circle,
all the way around.
But you're going to
do this one pin width.
By one pin, you'll
take, say, here,
and then you'll
breathe three times.
You'll feel it.
You'll stay in that state
of that wonderful feeling,
that blissful feeling.
And you'll notice how
you feel, and then you'll
move another millimeter over.
>>NOORY: A little notch.
>>MCKENNA: A little notch.
And what'll happen is you're
going to do this the entire way
around notch by notch by notch,
and you're going to notice.
There's going to be a
place somewhere for you
that this feeling is going
to be enhanced dramatically.
There's also going
to be a place where
somebody turned the lights off.
It's like over
here or something.
You're like, I can't feel it.
It doesn't matter
how hard I try.
I can't feel it.
So once you find that
position, wherever that is, you
memorize that position for you.
It's your love direction.
>>NOORY: Why is the eye
position so important here?
>>MCKENNA: Every position
that we look in, what happens
is it is a different
part of our brain.
And it corresponds with
this neurological circuit.
So when we find
the exact position,
we're going to light up
that part of our brain
that feels this, and it will
be reflected in our body.
>>NOORY: Do you remember
the movie "Vegas Vacation"?
>>MCKENNA: No, I never saw that.
>>NOORY: With Dan
Aykroyd and Chevy Chase.
And there was a scene
where Chevy Chase
asked Randy Quaid, who was
Cousin Eddie, for some money.
And Cousin Eddie's
eyes went like this.
It's a lot like what you've
been saying, eye movement.
>>MCKENNA: Yeah, yeah, there's
a position for everything.
There's a position for
your grief, your sadness.
>>NOORY: How did you
develop the Cognomovement?
>>MCKENNA: Cognomovement
as an entire modality
was developed by
myself and Liz Larsen.
We developed it together.
>>NOORY: Who we've been
seeing on the video.
>>MCKENNA: Who we've
been seeing online.
We basically started with
some very basic techniques
that we thought we had an
inclination that would work.
We had people just to
feel how they felt.
And we started a physical
movement process exercise,
and we found that those
feelings went away.
And it's greatly
expanded since that time.
>>NOORY: How do people
participate in this, Bill?
>>MCKENNA: They can
participate either
by becoming a practitioner,
or actually, they
can get a self-help
course on their own.
But most of all, I
have a free course
for everybody about this
love direction, where
they can actually learn how to
do it and the nuances of it.
Nothing's held back.
It's absolutely free for
all the Gaia members.
>>NOORY: How do they get to it?
>>MCKENNA: Cognomovement.com.
>>NOORY: You better
spell that out.
>>MCKENNA:
C-O-G-N-O-M-O-V-E-M-E-N-T.com.
This is so important here
that I have a special request
of all the Gaia listeners
if they will please
share this with everybody.
If everybody knew that it
was as simple as a position
of their eyes to be
forgiving, to be loving,
to have a great life, to
have synchronicity show up,
this is it.
This, you can share for free,
and you can improve your own
life and everyone else's.
>>NOORY: Why is it
with the eyes that you
can tell somebody's emotion
just by their eye movement?
You talk to somebody,
and they're upset.
And they go, oh.
You can tell.
Why is that?
>>MCKENNA: From
a very early age,
we humans have been learning.
You've been watching your
parents, their disappointment.
Am I going to get a cookie?
Oh, I see the look in their eye.
No, I'm not going
to get a cookie.
All of us all our
lives are tuned
in to these subtle details.
And if you've been part
of a household that
was abusive in some
way, son of an alcoholic
or daughter of an
alcoholic, you become
very sensitive about looking
at these little details.
>>NOORY: Now, what about people
who don't look you in the eye?
And you've seen them.
You've talked to them before.
They got their
eyes on the floor.
They look over your shoulder,
but they don't look at you.
What are they doing wrong?
>>MCKENNA: Loving themselves.
They don't--
>>NOORY: They're not
loving themselves.
>>MCKENNA: They're not.
They're not.
>>NOORY: Insecurities?
>>MCKENNA: Insecurities,
yes, exactly, exactly.
Afraid of being
judged, not enough.
And this is solvable.
It turns out for
myself as an example,
there's a self-love position,
and mine is right here.
And when I put my eyes
right there, I'm OK.
I'm all right, and
you're all right too.
>>NOORY: When I met you in the
dressing room earlier today,
you had a glow about you,
but I noticed your eyes.
Have you trained
yourself to do this?
Or is it natural?
>>MCKENNA: Well, I think it's
just how things are for me now.
Like I say, there's been
so many wonderful teachers
that have come into my
life, and I'm so grateful.
>>NOORY: You've learned well.
Bill, thanks for being
on "Beyond Belief."
>>MCKENNA: Thanks, George.
Cognomovement, fascinating.
I'm going to try it and
see what happens to me.
Thanks for watching
"Beyond Belief."
[THEME MUSIC]